---
title: "Iterate"
date: "2025-04-21"
---

Going back into old code is important at this stage I think. Taking a look at the koans again to re-visit some of the tougher concepts that I haven't yet used. Things that seem very important and I'm sure I will soon be utilizing, datatypes, macros, and multimethods. The koans are a great reference for these things and many more. I also spent time looking at my previous eulers and video notes.

SOLID Components. Larger entities made up of many classes. This was a great lesson that did some re-iterating on the SOLID principles, as well as introduce some new concepts like Components, Subroutines, and Linkers. A Component is an independant deployable library. Subroutines vs Frameworks was illustrated by example saying that applications call subroutines, frameworks call applications. The historical evolution of linking. From slow linkers requiring a full rebuild to modern loaders capable of resolving references dynamically teaches why shared and dynamically linked libraries became less prominent as compilation techniques improved. The idea of navigating abstraction layers like a yo-yo encourages thoughtful layering and separation of concerns, starting from abstract actor-driven requirements and gradually descending into implementation specifics.

Euler #11. Finding the 4 adjacent double digit numbers in any direction (left, right, up, down, diagonals). This was a much more intimidating problem on the surface. After getting the project open and dealing with the fact that the leading 0's will not be supported on numbers lke 08, I created a variable using a regex to remove them. Ultimately, this problem took a lot of testing and time thinking through my strategy. A strategy that I almost threw away before diving in.

Using function for Horizontal, Vertical, Diagonal-up, and Diagonal-down, I am able to check the product of 4 positions ahead of a starting index and column (x, y). These are all set up very similarly in that they all find the proper column, drop to the starting index of that column, before reaching out in the proper direction and either taking 4 (horizontal) or incrementing or decrementing the column before starting the drop process over again.

Now it was time to run a nested loop with all of these checks and using them to sort the output, giving me the largest product. This was a much larger project, code-wise than some of the previous eulers. I had a blast working through the problem and am thankful that Alex asked me to take on the challenge.

Thankful to be solving problems with a great team!